Great.
So for
the last two chapters of this course,
we're gonna take a look at
the so-called container queries.
It is the latest, hottest,
coolest thing that's happening in CSS.
So let's talk about what
container queries are and
how we might wind up using
them on our web pages.
So first of all,
what is a container query?
It's gonna enable you to apply
styles to elements nested within
a specific container based on
the features of that container.
If that makes no sense to you,
read it again and
file it away cuz it'll make more
sense once we get into the code.
The query itself is gonna return true or
false,
depending on whether the query
condition is true for the container.
Okay, so there's a true/false thing that's
going on here and there's containers
involved, that's probably about
what you take away from this slide.
That is the MDN definition of this.
We're gonna dig into
what exactly this means.
So the first thing that you should ask
anytime everybody talks about the hottest,
coolest, latest thing is, so
how is the browser support?
Well, turns out there are two kinds of
container queries in the real world at
this point in time.
The first one is container size queries,
and as you see here,
it is well supported and not supported
at all by the usual suspects.
So that is something that we
could go ahead and use, right?
So container size queries, these
are the first ones we're gonna build, and
we'll do this here in chapter
13 fairly well supported.
When you look at container style queries,
you will see that notably here,
it's partial support all the way across,
we'll talk about why that is when
we get to the style queries.
And we also should point
out the following.
Firefox has zero support.
Okay, there's no support at all for
style queries in Firefox.
And as of this recording, Safari has got
it in their beta version of the browser.
So it's coming, but whenever that
beta version of Safari is released.
Chrome and Edge are the only ones that
support container style queries at this
point in time.
So when we get to chapter 14, make sure
you're working in Chrome or Edge, and
I'll remind you then, okay?
So meanwhile,
let's focus on container size queries,
so that's the first one
we're gonna take a look at.
Here is the difference between a media
query and a container size queries.
Media queries, if we're looking at width,
are gonna consider the viewports width.
Container size queries,
consider the width of the container.
Obviously, we have a browser window,
it has a width associated with it.
If we're looking at that,
that's a media query.
Anything else, any HTML element inside of
your web page could be a container, and
that is what we look at when
we do a container query, Okay?
So that is what we talk about when we
talk about container size queries.
Containers are the elements
that are being queried.
As you've seen, we've talked a lot
about containers in this course, so
your grid container,
your flexbox container, the container for
the entire layout of the web page.
All of those are legit for
containers to be queried.
But the rules within effect
only the container's
descendants, not the container itself.
And this particular item tripped me up
more than once when putting together
the notes for
this particular chapter, okay?
So you can test the container
to see if something is true, but
you cannot actually affect
the way that container looks,
which may mean you need some extra
HTML in order to make this work well.
So how do you affect the container itself?
So if you have a container and you
actually want to change the way that it
looks, there's only two ways to do that.
You actually, either you're gonna use
media queries to change that container, or
you'll use the container query
on the container's parent.
This is a lot, I'm just gonna
put it out here on the slides.
It'll start making sense when
we put it into the code.
Container sized queries
are an addition to responsive design,
they are not a replacement for
media queries.
So one of the mental models we've
developed in JavaScript is that as
the latest hottests come out,
we leave the old Javascript behind and
we move forward and
we're looking at new things in Javascript.
This tends not to be true in CSS, it's
never 100%, but it tends not to be true.
CSS just continues to grow [LAUGH].
All the things we had before,
we've still got '.
So this does not mean that
the wave of the future,
after I've just spent all this time
talking to you about media queries,
why did I bother to do all of that
if container queries are the thing?
That is not the case,
this is an and situation.
Sometimes you'll want a media query,
sometimes you'll want a container query.
It depends, okay?
I'm just gonna throw this here for
the moment.
We have container query units, and
I am not gonna talk about
what all of those are.
You can just refer to them.
We love our units in CSS, and boy,
I'm sure we needed seven more of them.
So here you go.
There's all the units that you
can do with container queries,
this is right off the MDN page.